---
title: Developer meeting November 2018 | Moodle Developer Resources
url: https://moodledev.io/general/community/meetings/2018/11
source: sitemap
fetched_at: 2026-02-17T15:55:54.646694-03:00
rendered_js: false
word_count: 156
summary: This document outlines the agenda and discussion points for the November 2018 Moodle Developer Community meeting, covering updates on mobile integration, project roadmaps, and regulatory compliance.
tags:
    - moodle
    - developer-meeting
    - moodle-mobile
    - behat-testing
    - gdpr
    - community-updates
category: other
---

## Details[​](#details "Direct link to Details")

13:00 UTC on Thursday, 8 November 2018 [Meeting recording](https://moodle.zoom.us/recording/share/Mr-bvxWlUMUYLP0oURE2jsld986Zgzw6wcRvOxL0qo-wIumekTziMw)

[Meeting Minutes](https://devpad.moodle.org/p/MoodleDevCommunity-11-18)

[Meeting Discussion](https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=378121)

## Agenda[​](#agenda "Direct link to Agenda")

- Moodle Hack/Doc Fest for Winter 2019 Tuesday, January 8 through Thursday, January 10, 2019 at Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts (Charles Fulton) [http://www.clamp-it.org/clamp-events/moodle-hack-doc-fest-winter-2019/](http://www.clamp-it.org/clamp-events/moodle-hack-doc-fest-winter-2019/)
- Making question types work with Moodle Mobile (Marcus Green) See slides at [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jUyfULul\_g6hh\_3s-wISXIVphv\_RKqgpHuxMHZ0F800/edit#slide=id.p](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jUyfULul_g6hh_3s-wISXIVphv_RKqgpHuxMHZ0F800/edit#slide=id.p)
- Dashboard overview (Bas Brands)
  
  - [https://imgur.com/a/HX31Qux](https://imgur.com/a/HX31Qux)
  - Also see QA site [https://qa.moodle.net/](https://qa.moodle.net/)
- MUA Project update (Thom Rawson)
  
  - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SrCl4yRUimR3cl-7yCyHI50tl6IexnTE5aZzz\_szf9s/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SrCl4yRUimR3cl-7yCyHI50tl6IexnTE5aZzz_szf9s/edit?usp=sharing)
- Behat for Mobile (Sam Marshall)
  
  - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nMq2v2DTXXiOaa2FNoaoaXIVPx13JATyyV9\_EsVkLdQ/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nMq2v2DTXXiOaa2FNoaoaXIVPx13JATyyV9_EsVkLdQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- GDPR update for 3.6 (Andrew Nicols)
  
  - Again, see QA site [https://qa.moodle.net/](https://qa.moodle.net/)
  - Epic at [MDL-62331](https://moodle.atlassian.net/browse/MDL-62331)
  - 3.5.3 3.4.6, 3.6, some changes will also appear in 3.3, last backport of GDPR to stables.
- Time and schedule of future developer meetings (deferred to end)
  
  - There was widespread support for monthly meetings. We will continue to host second Thursday of each month as long as interest and attendance continue. Meetings will be held the second Thursday of each month, same time as this meeting.

<!--THE END-->

- [Details](#details)
- [Agenda](#agenda)