---
title: Caliper | Instructure Developer Documentation Portal
url: https://developerdocs.instructure.com/services/canvas/data-services/live-events/overview/file.data_service_caliper_structure
source: sitemap
fetched_at: 2026-02-15T09:14:15.967733-03:00
rendered_js: false
word_count: 1030
summary: This document defines the structure and metadata specifications for Canvas Caliper live events, detailing the implementation of the IMS Caliper v1.1 standard for analytical data.
tags:
    - canvas-lms
    - caliper
    - live-events
    - analytics-data
    - json-ld
    - ims-global
category: reference
---

Caliper live events are Canvas live events transformed into Caliper format. Caliper is a format based on JSON-LD that seeks to standardize analytical data. Each event consists of a JSON payload with a defined structure.

Caliper also has a concept of metric profiles. These are logical groupings of events that provide coverage of a certain set of actions. For example, the Assignable profile contains a number of events related to assignments.

We are currently using version 1.1 of the Caliper specification.

Canvas Caliper message event envelope consists of the following structure: sensor, sendTime, dataVersion, data attributes.

Canvas account domain name, e.g. `"sensor": "http://oxana.instructure.com/"`

The timestamp of when a specific event was sent to subscriber. sendTime is valid if in ISO 8601 format, e.g. yyyy-mm-ddThh ss.SSSZ where 'T' separates the date from the time, while 'Z' indicates that the time is set to UTC.

Value conforms with Caliper 1.1, i.e. http://purl.imsglobal.org/ctx/caliper/v1p1

Contains an ordered collection of one Caliper event. In Canvas implementation, we issue one message per event. IMS Caliper v1p1 allows you to combine multiple Events/Entities in one message data and/or Entity described objects. Per Caliper v1p1 the Sensor MAY micEvent and Entity described data in the same Envelope.

Under data Event collection:

- Each event has a @context attribute whose value is http://purl.imsglobal.org/ctx/caliper/v1p1
- Each event has an id attribute whose value is a Version 4 UUID expressed as a URN using the form urn:uuid:, per RFC 4122, e.g: `"id": "urn:uuid:19f57ead-f709-45e0-9869-25c68d933d45"`
- Each event has a valid actor, action, object, and eventTime attributes.
  
  - type is a string value corresponding to the Term defined for the Event in the external IMS Caliper JSON-LD context document.
  - action is formed as a result of a purposeful action undertaken by the actor at a particular moment in time and within a given learning context. It is a string set to the appropriate Caliper Term; only one action can be specified per event.
  - actor is the agent who initiated the event in the system of origin, typically a Person, but not always. It is a hash containing an id and type attribute, each valid strings. For example: `"actor": { "id": "http://oxana.instructure.com/", "type": "SoftwareApplication" }`. Note that in cases where an event is clearly initiated by a user, but Canvas is unable to determine the user's id, the actor will still be designated as a Person, but will have an id of 0, for example: `"actor": { "id": "urn:instructure:canvas:user:0", "type": "Person"}`
    
    - The SoftwareApplication actor will appear when an Event is initiated by system of Event origin maybe as a result of user interaction with a specific asset, but without user specific actions, e.g. GradeEvent for assessment is generated by Canvas when a quiz is set to auto-grade setting.
  - eventTime is a valid ISO 8601 formatted server timestamp when an event happened in the system of origin; e.g. yyyy-mm-ddThh ss.SSSZ where 'T' separates the date from the time while 'Z' indicates that the time is set to UTC, e.g. "eventTime":"2018-09-24T21:43:50.000Z"

The following OPTIONAL properties are available for certain events, please see Event Payloads for more details.

Encapsulates an entity that was created as a result of the interaction. Expressed as an object. Available only in a few specific event types , see payloads for details.

The software that constitutes the application context. Expressed as an object.

edApp.id is represented as a customer Canvas domain URL e.g : http://oxana.instructure.com/ or a default URL: www.canvaslms.com depending on the producer of the event and the application end user accessing Canvas from.

edApp.id = account hostname when an event is produced by end user action : submitting an assignment, browsing application. Hostname might vary based on the account settings, it could show up as a vanity account URL , events triggered thru mobile app follow the same logic and provide canvas account domain URL for all events produced by end user.

edApp.id = DEFAULT\_URL = 'www.canvaslms.com' when an event is triggered by an automated job run by software application. Typically you will not see request, session and hostname details in those events.

Representation of the Canvas context type where the action took place. Expressed as an object. There are only two types of context used in Basic Caliper implementation: CourseOffering (Canvas Course) and CourseSection (Canvas Section).

The relationship between the actor and the group in terms of roles assigned and current status. Expressed as an object. We do not include a membership for gradeChanged since the actor is SoftwareApplication.

A web application user session. Expressed as an object.

Not all Canvas assets properties are covered by the Caliper spec. We add extensions to many events and entities. See specific Message type for details around supported object extensions.

**Description:** contain request details for user and system triggered events, extensions are listed in the `data[0].extensions["com.instructure.canvas"]`

The client IP address of the request that triggered the event. Only present in user-generated events

The domain of the Canvas instance for the request. Only present in user-generated events

The identifier for the asynchronous job. Only present in system-generated events (events emitted in an asynchronous job, not an HTTP request)

A string identifying the type of job being performed. Only present in system-generated events (events emitted in an asynchronous job, not an HTTP request)

The identifier for this request. Correlates to Canvas Data table requests.id. Only present in user-generated events

The URL to the requested resource. Only present in user-generated events

The User-Agent sent by the browser making the request. Only present in user-generated events

Canvas implementation version of Caliper p1v1 events

### Caliper Event Actor Extensions

**Description:** contains user account and profile details for user triggered events, extensions are listed in the in the `data[0].actor.extensions["com.instructure.canvas"]`

The ID of the Canvas user who triggered the event

The Canvas id of the root account associated with the context of the event

The Canvas lti\_guid of the root account associated with the context of the event

The Canvas uuid of the root account associated with the context of the event

The login of the current user. Only present in user-generated events (events emitted directly from an HTTP request)

The SIS id of the user. Only present in user-generated events (events emitted directly from an HTTP request)

The ID of the Canvas user, only populated when masquerade feature is used

* * *

This documentation is generated directly from the Canvas LMS source code, available [on Githubarrow-up-right](https://github.com/instructure/canvas-lms).

Last updated 7 months ago

This site uses cookies to deliver its service and to analyze traffic. By browsing this site, you accept the [privacy policy](https://www.instructure.com/policies/marketing-privacy).